.TH checkbox-invocation 1 "February 04, 2008" "Marc Tardif"

.SH NAME

checkbox\-qt, checkbox\-cli, checkbox\-urwid, checkbox\-gtk \- Application for system testing

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B checkbox
.RI [ OPTIONS ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Checkbox provides tests to confirm that your system is working
properly. Once you are finished running the tests, you can view
a summary report for your system.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-c \fIconfig\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR=\fIconfig
Configuration override parameters.

.TP
.B \-l \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR=\fIfile
The file to write the log to.

.TP
.B \-\-log-level
One of debug, info, warning, error or critical.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a usage message briefly summarizing these command-line options.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The behavior of
.B checkbox
is affected by the following environment variables.
.PP
The locale for category
.BI LC_ foo
is specified by examining the three environment variables
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_\fIfoo\fP ,
.BR LANG ,
in that order.
The first of these variables that is set specifies the locale.
For example, if
.B LC_ALL
is not set, but
.B LC_MESSAGES
is set to
.BR pt_BR ,
then the Brazilian Portuguese locale is used for the
.B LC_MESSAGES
category.
The C locale is used if none of these environment variables are set,
if the locale catalog is not installed.
.TP
.B CHECKBOX_OPTIONS
This variable specifies default options
to be placed in front of any explicit options.
For example, if
.B CHECKBOX_OPTIONS
is
.BR "'\-\^\-log-level=debug'" ,
.B checkbox
behaves as if the option had been specified before any explicit options.
Option specifications are separated by whitespace.
A backslash escapes the next character,
so it can be used to specify an option containing whitespace or a backslash.
.TP
.B CHECKBOX_DATA
Specifies the directory containing variable data such as persisting state for example.
Some plugins in
.B checkbox
might also choose to store their own data under that directory.
.TP
.B CHECKBOX_SHARE
This variable specifies the directory containing shared files such as
plugins and jobs for example.
It might also contain static files used by plugins such as data files and scripts.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/checkbox.d/checkbox.ini
The base
.B checkbox
configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/checkbox.d/checkbox-cli.ini
The command-line configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/checkbox.d/checkbox-urwid.ini
The command-line configuration file (urwid version).
.TP
.B /etc/checkbox.d/checkbox-gtk.ini
The GTK configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/checkbox.d/checkbox-qt.ini
The QT configuration file.
.SH AUTHOR
.B checkbox
and the accompanying tools are developed by Marc Tardif
<marc.tardif@canonical.com>.
