The Checkbox Touch
==================

This directory contains the implementation of Checkbox Touch. The Ubuntu-SDK
based touch application that initially, will target the phone form factor (but
will work on all the form factors).

It is implemented according to a design document (http://goo.gl/2agB51),
that describes a minimum viable product for v1.0

The application works well in an x86 and armhf emulator as well as on the
desktop. On a desktop system we recommend to use packaged dependencies
(python3-plainbox and pyotherside). On any of the touch devices you will need
to build a suitable click package (see below for details) or get a copy from
the Ubuntu store, once it gets published.

Getting dependencies
--------------------

The click package is built from QML/JavaScript/Python code contained in the
`py` and `components` directories. It also has `lib` directory that contains
all necessary libraries needed to run checkbox-touch.

Before building click package make sure you run `./get-libs` to initialize and
populate `./lib` directory. Use --get-local-plainbox to embed plainbox code
that's available in the ../plainbox directory.

Building and installing the click package
-----------------------------------------

To build Checkbox-Touch click package run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./build-me

to build and install the package run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./build-me --install

Running Checkbox-Touch on a desktop
-----------------------------------

To run on a desktop run `qmlscene main.qml`
Note: Make sure you've ran `./get-libs` first.


Choosing the default test-plan
------------------------------

If you wish to run one particular test plan, you may do so, by providing
./build-me script with --testplan option. E.g.:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./build-me --testplan="2013.com.canonical.plainbox::stub"


Embedding providers into click package
--------------------------------------

If you wish to provide extra providers, copy them into `providers` directory.
Every provider in `providers` directory should have same structure as one
generated by `plainbox startprovider` command

Default Checkbox-Touch settings
-------------------------------
During execution of `./build-me` script, `settings.json` file is generated.
It contains values that Checkbox-Touch will use as its default ones.
Altough not required, you may edit this file to suit your needs.

Further assistance
------------------

For further assistance on packaging Checkbox-Touch, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ./build-me --help


